{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Fig 2.2 The legend says this is a vertical profile, but the y-axis is time. Is this because of the constant updraft velocity? Because the PartMC results don\'92t have an exactly constant updraft velocity, does that introduce artifacts into this comparison?\
\
Fig 2.2 Why are the droplets becoming less acidic as SO2 mixing ratio decreases? Wouldn\'92t SO2 conversion to sulfate lead to more acidic particles?\
\
Section 2.3 Page 23 - sulfate mixing ratio in ppb - is this a gas-phase equivalent of the particle mass concentration?\
\
Section 2.4.2 Figure 2.5 and 2.6. Could looking at rates at 3 min affect the conclusions about the effects of pH on sulfate formation? What if most of the sulfate forms in the first 2 min?\
\
Section 2.5 - Why were OH emissions needed for PTMI and not Pref? Was much more sulfate being formed in PTMI?\
\
Figure 2.8 - How does the sum of the all rates vary over time? Could all the sulfate be forming in the first few minutes?\
\
Section 3.3.1 Page 40 - I didn\'92t really follow why the evaporation of ammonium nitrate would lead to a decrease in chi. I would have thought the opposite would be true - assuming some particles had ammonium nitrate and others didn\'92t, wouldn\'92t their removal lead to a more uniform composition across all particles? Or is it that all the particles had ammonium nitrate, and when it was gone, the diversity in the remaining species had more effect on chi?\
\
\
\
\
}